In the current lesson, we will teach NPCs to find a health pickup. We will also do this using EQS.
We will temporarily replace the material of our health pickup with black,
so that the debug information of the EQS spheres is more visible. Go to the blueprint of the health pickup
and change our light green glow material to the BaseColor material, which is black by default.
Add additional health pickups to the scene. Let's hide one of them behind the wall.
Go to the EQS directory in the content browser. We create a new asset.
Let's call it EQS_FindHealthPickup.
We open. To find a health pickup, we will use a special generator
called ActorsOfClass. This generator allows you to find actors of a certain type in the game world.
In the details panel, there is a special property called SearchedActorClass.
Let's set the class of our pickup STU_HealthPickup to this property. The next setting is the
search radius. Let's set it to 1500. This way EQS will find all the actors around our
pawn within a radius of 1500 units. Also, the test pawn needs to change the template to EQS_FindHealthPickup.
Debug spheres with centers in pickup actors are displayed on the stage. The search takes place in the radius, so if
our pickups are further than 1500 units from the pawn, then the spheres are not drawn. Now, with the help of
tests, we need to choose a suitable pickup. The first test that we add will be responsible for the visibility of the
pickup, that is, if it is behind the wall and the character does not see it, then this pickup does not suit us.
Add a test called Trace. This test runs a trace between all
found actors and the pawn. Trace channels can be selected. The default is Visibility and
you can also customize the trace type. Various offsets and so on. The test passes if the
trace is successful, that is, along the Visibility channel, there are some objects between our
pickup actors and the pawn. This can be seen from the debug information in the scene. We need to invert
this condition. To do this, set the property BoolMatch to false in the details panel. Now this test
will cut off all objects that are not visible to our pawn. An object behind the
wall fails the test. If we move the pawn closer, then it becomes visible and the test
passes, but the other two do not. Thus, thanks to this test, we implemented the search for the health pickup
that we see for npc. Now we need to find the pickup closest to us. To do this, add the
distance test. None of the pickups are available, because by default distance has FilterType - Range: from 0 to 0.
Set it to minimum. We also need to invert the ScoringFactor. Set it to -1.
After that, the weight will be the maximum for the actor closest in distance. We can test it on
stage. Now the left-most pickup is coming to us. Now right. If we move behind the wall, then the maximum
weight will be at the pickup truck, which is in cover. We have implemented an EQS that finds the most
appropriate health pickup for our NPC. Let's move on to the behavior tree and see how
it works in the game. Disable the main tree temporarily. With Alt pressed, click on the arrow. Let's implement the following logic:
add a selector, if the character does not find the pickup, then he will just wait. Therefore, on the right we
add task Wait. We put two seconds, and on the left side we will have a
pickup search sequence . Add the Run_EqsQuery node. Install the corresponding FindHealthPickup template.
And we move to the found point. It is necessary to check that the keys are in AimLocation.
We start the game. The character ran to the nearest pickup truck. The next time the same
pickup is found, that's why there is such a twitching of the tree. We can click on the eject button and play
with the position of the pickups on the stage. Thus, the character finds the nearest pickup truck and moves towards it.
Let's hit the Pause button and hide all the pickups behind the wall. In this situation, the EQS search task
will return Fail and the entire sequence will stop. Click resume. The character
does not see health pickups. The whole sequence fails and he is in standby mode.
Thus, we can add this sequence to our behavior tree, but it is also necessary to check
whether this pickup of NPC health is needed. To do this, we will create a special decorator that will
evaluate this condition. Let's create our own C ++ decorator. Go to the classes folder,
to the AI ​​directory. We need to inherit from the BT_Decorator class.
Let's call this decorator STU_HealthPercentDecorator.
Let's also create an additional Decorators directory and finish creating the class.
Add a directory to PublicIncludePaths. Go to the header file of the created decorator.
I have previously created a constructor for this class, in which we will have the name of the Health Percent node.
Also added all the required header files. We return to the header file.
Let's go to the base UBTDecorator class and find the function we need.
It is located at the very bottom. CalculateRawConditionValue is called. In this function, we will calculate the
condition we need. We copy the signature. We create a protected section and override this function
in our class. We need an additional property, which will contain the allowed
percentage of the character's health. If the current health percentage is less than this value, then our
decorator will return true. The variable will be of type float. Let's call it HealthPercent.
Let's set some value by default. Let it be 60 percent.
We create the body of the CalculateRawConditionValue function.
Get a pointer to the controller using UBehaviorTreeComponent.
If the controller is null, then we return false. Next, we get a pointer to the health component.
If the component is zero, or our character is dead,
that is, the IsDead function returns true,
then we return false. In this case, you shouldn't run the sequence under our decorator.
If these checks are passed, then the decorator will return true
when the current value of the character's health percentage is less than the value of our property.
Compile the code. Forgot to add another test to EQS. Let's consider the following situation.
Let's say, randomly while designing the scene, the pickup is outside our nav mesh.
Let's move our test pawn closer to it. In this situation, all our tests still pass,
but the NPC will not be able to get to this point. Let's fix it up. Let's open our FindHealthPickup.
Let's add an additional test that will determine if a navigation path exists to the found point.
The test is called PathFinding, that is, path finding. With default settings, it cuts off all points
to which the path does not exist. TestMode is set to PathExists. Let's make sure of this.
Let's add an extra pickup and move it to the nav mesh. Select our test pawn
and see that the pickup, which is highlighted in green on the nav mesh, and behind the nav mesh, the
test does not pass and the pickup is highlighted in blue. Let's go to the behavior tree. Let's add the created decorator to our selector.
Set ObserverAborts to Self. If the percentage of health is more than 60,
then the sequence will not be executed for us. Let's see what's going on. Click play.
Pawn is waiting. We change the number of lives of the NPC - shoot at him.
It is 60 percent and the sequence is running. The NPC finds the pickup. All logic works for us.
Let's change our main tree. Let's add the created sequence for finding a health pickup to it.
Move the sequence to the leftmost edge. It will have the highest priority of
execution, that is, if health is low, then we immediately look for a health pickup. We connect with root.
We delete unnecessary nodes. Let's move the Fire service to the topmost node. Thus, when the NPC
runs to the health pickup, he will still shoot back from enemies.
Save asset. Let's see how it looks in the game.
For the test, you can change the percentage value to some large number so that one cartridge is enough.
In the fire service, set the EnemyActor key to None so that we won't be accidentally killed.
We save and launch the game. We shoot at the NPC. Health has decreased.
EQS finds a health pickup and character picks it up. Everything is working. HealthPercent can be returned in 0.6
Also return the key to FireService. Plus I'll roll out the changes with the black stuff of health pickups.